### The Basics

Fifty-Five and Five reminds you to take breaks every now and then.
After 55 minutes, it will play a sound and show a notification on your
phone or tablet that it's time to rest.  Five minutes later, it will
let you know that it's time to get back to work.  After that, it
starts the 55-minute timer again, and keeps reminding you to take five
minute breaks once an hour until you stop it.

What makes Fifty-Five and Five different from a kitchen timer, or the
timer that comes with your phone, is that most timers ring once and
then you need to reset them.  Fifty-Five and Five will keep cycling
through the timers, even if you don't touch your phone.  You can set
your phone somewhere to the side, or leave it in your pocket, and not
bother responding to the alerts.  Fifty-Five and Five will keep
running.

### Can I change the timers?

Certainly!  The default timers are a "Work" timer for 55 minutes, and
a "Rest" timer for 5 minutes, but you can have as many timers as you
want, with whatever times you want, up to 24 hours each.  The app will
cycle through each of them in turn.

To change the timers, click the "i" button (in the bottom-right corner
of the top half of the screen), then click "Edit" (in the top right of
the screen).

### Why?

For whatever reasons you want!  Maybe you have an injured joint that
you need to ice now and then.  People lifting heavy boxes need to take
a break to rest their spines to prevent injuries.  Computer workers
need to rest their wrists and eyes for good health.  People exercising
with interval training may want to be notified of when to switch
exercises.

While the name "Fifty-Five and Five" is catchy, a 55-5 timer rotation
isn't right for every situation.  Be sure to set the timers to the
right times for whatever your needs are.  If you're not sure, talk to
your doctor, coach, or other qualified professional.

### What will I see and hear?

If the app is running on the screen, the background color will change
so you can see it from a distance.  You'll also see a message appear
that lets you dismiss or snooze the alarm.  (Remember, you don't have
to respond to the message.  Fifty-Five and Five will keep running your
timers even if you don't touch the screen.)

If the app isn't visible, you get notifications the same way you see
text messages or other app notifications.  By default, a banner will
appear at the top of your screen.  Pull down on the banner to see
options to snooze the alarm for five minutes, or to stop running the
timers altogether.  If your phone is locked, you can swipe left on the
message to see the same options.  You also can tell Fifty-Five and
Five to pop up a message box in your device's Settings screen.

The default alarm sound is a 30-second tune.  You also can switch to a
short "ding" sound.  You may prefer the short sound if you are using
short timers, such as for interval training.

If your device supports vibration, or you have a smart watch, you'll
also be notified that way.

### Support or Contact

Having trouble with Fifty-Five and Five?  Check out the
[documentation](https://github.com/piquan/fifty-five-and-five/wiki)
or file a
[support issue](https://github.com/piquan/fifty-five-and-five/issues).

### Forking

If you're a developer, you are welcome to check out the source on
[GitHub](https://github.com/piquan/fifty-five-and-five).  Be aware
that forking does not currently allow you to distribute this program
through the App Store; see
[COPYING.notice](https://github.com/piquan/fifty-five-and-five/blob/master/COPYING.notice)
for details.  That said, I'm happy to make individual exceptions if
you're interested; contact me for details.

### Legal

Fifty-Five and Five is copyright &copy; 2016 Joel Ray Holveck.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

The above examples of using this applications are ideas only, and are
not medical advice.  This application is not a medical device, and is
not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease.  Any
use is at the user's own risk and discretion, and should only be done
under proper medical supervision.
